so lets finish up our discussion about
immutable objects before we go on to the
challenge I just wanna make it clear to
the question what exactly is wrong with
allowing a class to be extended so have
a look at the declaration of our location
map, one line 8 our locations map in main now the map is
declared using generic so that accepts
an integer key and a value of type location
but if location is extended then
instances of the new class could also be
used so this is generally not a problem
in fact it's actually incredibly useful
but if we use the location type for the
key instead of the value we wanted to
ensure that only completely
immutable objects could be used as the
keys then we have to prevent
subclasses over which we have got no control
from being used so anyone who wants to use
the functionality of the locations class
once we prevent them from extending it
can still to do so using composition they
create methods that then call the
locations class methods from an instance of
a location that could still do almost
everything that's subclassing would have
allowed them to do except use their own
class where location object was expected
and most of the time you do not want
your classes to be immutable a bank
account class where the balanced where
the changes would be of little use
no matter how we love to check on such an
account but even if we don't want an
immutable class you can use these
techniques in various combinations to
make your classes certainly more robust
than if you didn't do anything at all now the
challenge is that there's still a
problem with location it's possible to
crash the program as a result the
problem is with the location class
itself so don't waste time trying to
crash it by entering invalid input there is
also no consistency checking in the
main method so if we created exits
that refer to a location say for
example location 6 that doesn't exist in
our locations map then program will also
crash but this challenge is about
finding a problem with the location
class, so here is your challenge and the
challenges to work out what is wrong
with the location constructor that would
allow the program to compile and crash
at runtime so when you identify the problem modify the code to fix it so I just i’ll just say that again
your challenge here is to work out what
is wrong with the location
constructor that you can see on screen line 14
that will allow the program to
compile but crush on run time when you
identify the problem modify the code to fix it
and so I’ll pause the video now and when
you come back I'll show you what the
problem was and how to fix
it
ok so did you figure it out what the
problem was well the problem is that the
constructi crash with a
NullPointerException at line  17 if
null is passed instead of the map and to see
this lets modify the method, i’ll go back to the
main method, i’ll closed down
the run window and will change temp exit
to null we're now passing a null map
so if we run, we get a crash 10 NullPointer
Exception and we are getting a crash on line
17 but the program crashes as a result
so you might look at the code and think well it's probably reasonable
on line 22 to have a null passed
because there aren't any exits because
it's a special sort of location that
were using to indicate that the program has quit but
obviously having crashes is a bad thing so
the solution, go back to the location
constructor is to test the constructors
argument and don't try to
initialize the new map if null is passed for the exits
so consider what I mean there we put a test here
we put if exits not equal to null so if
there is some valid map from that was
pass to this method and we're going to
initialize it with that map else we put
this…
with an empty constructor meaning it's going
to create a new HashMap but obviously
because there is no valid data pass to this constructor
and everything else can remain the same the
code on line 22 will still work because
it's got a valid map because it has been initialised correctly so to confirm that we
run that again we are no longer getting an error and we can still navigate
and do things as you have have normally done so that’s it I hope you got a lot out of immutability and out of
this adventure challenges and I'll see
you in the next video